general of the UN relief Agency for
Palestinian refugees unra is about to uh
speak to the council uh as a
humanitarian crisis in Gaza worsens and
of course this comes as Israel demands
uh to abolish this agency unra uh in
Gaza we had at the beginning of the
session the maltes president of the
security Council the current president
of the security Council uh hold a minute
of silence for this crisis in Gaza for
the victims uh in Gaza and now in just a
few minutes we'll be hearing from Philip
lazarini the head of unra uh let's
listen in foreign minister Okay let's
listen in to the maltes foreign minister
Saudi Arabia the Syrian Arab Republic
and turkia to participate in this
meeting it is so decided
I propose that the council invite the
special representative of the president
of the Observer state of Palestine
participate in the meeting in accordance
with the provisional rules of procedure
and the previous practice in this
regard there is no objection it is so
decided
on behalf of the council I welcome his
Excellency Mr zad
abar in accordance with rule 39 of the
council's provisional rules of procedure
I invite Mr Philip
larini commissioner
General of the United Nations relief and
works Agency for Palestine
refugees in the near East to participate
in this
meeting it is so
decided in accordance with rule 39 of
the council's provisional rules of
procedure I also invite his Excellency
Mr stavos Lain heis head of the
delegation of the European Union to the
United Nations to participate in this
meeting it is so
decided the security Council will now
begin its consideration of item two of
the
agenda and I now give the floor to Mr
Philip
larini Mr
President member of the council this is
a time of seismic change in the Middle
East
at the heart of this region the United
Nation agency for Palestine refugees
unoa is a stabilizing
force in Gaza the agency is the backbone
of the human turn operation coordinating
and providing life saving
assistance Beyond Gaza it has championed
human development for pales refugees for
decades across the
region today an Insidious campaign to
end un's operation is on the way with
serious implication for International
Peace and
security it is in this cont context that
the council is asked to consider the
existential challenges confronting the
agency Mr President 6 months of
Relentless bombardment and a mercil
Siege have transformed G Gaza beyond
recognition homes schools and hospitals
have been reduced to Rubble under which
countless bodies
lies children are bearing the brunt of
this war more than 177,000 are separated
from their families left to face the
horror of Gaza alone children are killed
injured and starved deprived of any
physical or psychological safety across
Gaza a man made famine is tightening
tightening its grip in the north infant
and young children have begun to die of
malnutrition and
dehydration across the border food and
clean water weight but un is denied
permission to deliver this Aid and save
lives this outrage is occurring despite
consecutive order by the international
court of justice
to increase the flow of Aid into Gaza
which can be done if there is sufficient
political will you have the power to
make the
difference member of the council un's
mandate is supported by an
overwhelmingly majority of member state
yet the agency is under enormous strain
it is facing a campaign to push it out
of the occupied Palestinian
territory in Gaza the government of
Israel seeks to end unas
activities the agency's request to
deliver Aid to the north are repeatedly
denied our staff are barred from
coordination meetings between Israel and
humanitarian
actors
Wars un premises and staff have have
been targeted since the beginning of the
war
178 un Personnel have been killed more
than 160 un premises mostly used as
shelters have been damaged or destroyed
killing more than 400 people premises
vacated by the agency have been used for
military purposes by Israeli forces
Hamas and other Palestinian armed group
our headquarter has been occupied
militarily and allegation have emerged
concerning the existence of tunnels
under our
premises un personal detain by Israeli
security forces have shared arrowing
accounts of mistreatment and torture in
detention Mr
President we demand an independent
investigation and accountability for the
blat and disregard for the protected
statue of humanitarian workers operation
and Facilities under international law
to do otherwise would set a dangerous
precedent and compromise humanitarian
world around the
world member of the council the
situation in the occupied West Bank is
also highly concerning daily attacks by
Israeli settlers military incursion and
the destruction of homes and civilian
infrastructure are part of a well oiled
system of segregation and oppression
un's operational space is shrinking with
arbitrary measures imposed by Israel to
restrict the presence and the movement
of
Staff it is becoming increasingly
difficult to keep our schools and health
centers open and
accessible legislative and
administrative action to evict un from
its headquarter in eusem and prohibit
its activities on Israeli territory are
also on the
way Mr President amid these challenges
serious allegation against individual un
personel in Gaza emerged in
January horrified by this
allegation I immediately terminated the
appointment of those concerned the
Secretary General ordered an
investigation through the office of
internal oversight services in parallel
an independent review group is assessing
how un uphold neutrality a core
principle guiding our work despite this
prompt and decis action a significant
amount of donors funding remain
suspended this has serious operational
implication and undermine the financial
sustainability of the
agency be assured that we remain firmly
committed to implementing the
recommendation of the review and to
strengthening existing safeguards
against neutrality
Bridges member of the council as I
informed the general assembly in March
calls for onas closure are not about
adherence to humanitarian
principles these calls are about ending
the refugee statues of million of
Palestinian they seek to change the
longstanding political paramet for peace
in the occupied Palestinian territory
set by the resolution of the general
and this
Council accusation that un deliberately
perpetuates Refugee status are false and
dishonest the agency exists because a
political solution does not it exist in
new of a state that can deliver critical
Public
Services the International Community has
long attempted to contain rather and
resolve the Israel Palestine conflict
liap Services paid to the two two-state
solution each time an escalation occurs
costing lives and hope un was created 75
years ago as a temporary agency a stop
Gap measure pending a political answer
to the question of Palestine if the
International Community truly commit
to a political solution un can retrieve
its temporary Nature by supporting a
Time born transition delivering
education Primary Health Care and social
support it can do so until a Palestine
Administration takes over the services
absorbing on Palestinian personnel as
civil
servant Mr President dismounting unoa
will have lasting
repercussions in the short term it will
deepen the humanit crisis in Gaza and
accelerate the onset of hin in the
longer term it will jeopardize a
transition from ceasefire to day after
by depriving a traumatized population of
essential
Services it will make make nearly
impossible the formidable task of
bringing half a million deeply
distressed girls and boys back to
learning failing to deliver on
education will condemn an entire
generation to despair fueling anger
resentment and endless cycles of
violence a political solution cannot
succeed in such a scenar
scario member of the council let me
conclude with three
appeals first I call on council members
to act in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 302 and Safeguard
un's critical role both now and within
the framework of the
transition un has long been a custodian
of the rights of palestin refugees it
can only relinquish its Central role of
providing critical services and
protecting human rights when a political
solution is
realized until then the political
support of member states must be matched
by
funding second I urge you to commit to a
genuine political process culminating in
a solution that can bring peace to
Palestinian and Israelis this process
must up all Palestinian refugees right
and aspiration to adjust and Lasting
political solution to the
plight third we must acknowledge that
the political process alone will not
guarantee a sustainable peace the wounds
that run deep in this region cannot be
healed without cultivating empathy and
rejecting dehumanization that is rampant
whether in political rhetoric or in the
misuse of new technology in
Warfare we must refuse to choose between
empathizing with either Palestinian or
Israelis or showing compassion for
either gazen or Israeli hostages and
their families instead we must recognize
and reflect in our words and action
that Palestinian and Israelis share a
long and profound experience of grief
and loss that they are equally deserving
of a peaceful and secure future I urge
you to hand realize this future through
principled multilateral action and a
genuine commitment to peace thank
you I thank Mr lari